>> Woodruff: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WAS ON THE
DEFENSIVE ON TWO FRONTS TODAY,
FACING TOUGH QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
I.R.S.'S SCRUTINY OF
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS, AND THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT'S SEIZURE OF
REPORTERS' PHONE RECORDS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE
START WITH THE I.R.S. UNDER
FIRE, WITH A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION NOW UNDER WAY
AFTER REPORTS ITS AUDITS OF TEA
PARTY AND OTHER GROUPS EXTENDED
TO OFFICIALS IN WASHINGTON.
>> Woodruff: AND WE EXAMINE THE
CLASH BETWEEN THE FIRST
AMENDMENT AND LEAKED CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION, AFTER THE
GOVERNMENT SECRETLY OBTAINED
PHONE LOGS OF THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS.
>> Brown: THEN, FRED DE SAM
LAZARO REPORTS ON A NEW APPROACH
EDUTOCATE AND ENGAGE MILLIONS
OF INDIA'S POOREST STUDENTS.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET WARNER HAS
THE STRANGE STORY OF A DETAINED
AMERICAN DIPLOMAT, HIS WIGS, AND
RUSSIA'S CLAIMS HE WAS A SPY.
>> Brown: AND POLITICAL EDITOR
CHRISTINA BELLANTONI TALKS WITH
THE AUTHOR OF A NEW BOOK THAT
EXPLORES HOW TECHNOLOGY IS
IMPACTING OUR DEMOCRACY.
>> THIS RADICAL POWER, THIS
INCREDIBLE CONNECTIVITY THAT
INDIVIDUALS ARE CARRYING AROUND,
IT'S RESHAPING THE BALANCE OF
POWER IN OUR MUNICIPALITY IN
BOTH GOOD WAYS AND BAD WAYS.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Brown: THE NATION'S CAPITAL
WAS ALIVE WITH TALK OF SCANDAL
TODAY, STARTING WITH THE
REVELATIONS ABOUT THE INTERNAL
REVENUE SERVICE.
QUESTIONS GREW OVER REPORTS OF
OVERZEALOUS ENFORCEMENT, AIMED
AT GROUPS ON THE POLITICAL
RIGHT.
THE DAY BEGAN WITH NEW
DISCLOSURES ABOUT WHAT THE
I.R.S. HAD DONE AND WHO KNEW
ABOUT IT.
THE "WASHINGTON POST" REPORTED
THE TARGETING OF CONSERVATIVE
GROUPS WAS NOT LIMITED TO THE
AGENCY'S CINCINNATI OFFICE AS
THE I.R.S. INITIALLY SAID.
INSTEAD, THE "POST" SAID AGENCY
OFFICIALS IN WASHINGTON AND AT
LEAST TWO OTHER OFFICERS WERE
ALSO INVOLVED.
THAT PROMPTED NEW CALLS BY
REPUBLICANS FOR MORE
INFORMATION.
SENATE MINORITY LEADER MITCH
McCONNELL DEMANDED FULL
TRANSPARENCY.
>> SO THIS MORNING I'M CALLING
ON THE PRESIDENT TO MAKE
AVAILABLE COMPLETELY AND WITHOUT
RESTRICTION EVERYONE, EVERYONE,
WHO CAN ANSWER THE QUESTIONS WE
HAVE AS TO WHAT'S BEEN GOING ON
AT THE I.R.S.
WHO KNEW ABOUT IT AND HOW HIGH
IT WENT.
NO STONEWALLING, NO MORE
INCOMPLETE ANSWERS.
>> Reporter: PRESIDENT OBAMA ON
MONDAY SAID SINGLING OUT
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS FOR TAX
SCRUTINY WOULD BE "OUTRAGEOUS."
AND AT THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY
PRESS SECRETARY JAY CARNEY SAID
AGAIN THE PRESIDENT IS
DETERMINED TO GET TO THE BOTTOM
OF THE SCANDAL.
>> IF WHAT WE'RE SEEING IN SOME
OF THESE REPORTS ABOUT SPECIFIC
TARGETING AND ACTIONS TAKEN BY
PERSONNEL WITHIN THE I.R.S.
TURNS OUT TO BE TRUE THEN PEOPLE
SHOULD BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE AND
WHAT THAT MEANS IN CONCRETE
ACTION WE'LL HAVE TO SAY BASED
ON THE INFORMATION AND THE FACTS
IN A ARE GATHERED, PRINCIPALLY
AT LEAST FIRST BY THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL.
THE.
>> Brown: THE ACTING
COMMISSIONER OF THE I.R.S. WAS
HEARD FROM, TOO, FOR THE FIRST
TIME.
IN A "U.S.A. TODAY" OP-ED COLUMN
STEVEN MILLER ACKNOWLEDGED
AGENCY WORKERS REPORTED TO
"SHORT CUTS" BECAUSE THEY HAD SO
MANY APPLICATIONS FOR TAX-EXEMPT
STATUS.
MILLER CONCEDED THE ACTIONS
DEMONSTRATED "A LACK OF
SENSITIVITY TO THE IMPLICATIONS
OF SOME OF THE DECISIONS THAT
WERE MADE."
YESTERDAY THE I.R.S. SAID MILLER
HAD LEARNED LAST YEAR THAT
GROUPS WITH TEA PARTY, PATRIOT,
OR 9/12 PROJECT IN THEIR NAMES
WERE TARGETED BUT HE DID NOT
NOTIFY CONGRESS DESPITE
INQUIRIES BY SOME LAWMAKERS.
THIS AFTERNOON, REPUBLICAN
SENATOR ORRIN HATCH OF UTAH SAID
THAT FAILURE RAISES SERIOUS
QUESTIONS.
>> HE PURPOSEFULLY MISLED ME.
BECAUSE I WROTE A LETTER, I HAD
OTHER SENATORS ON THE LETTER, I
GOT A LETTER BACK FROM HIM
BASICALLY SAYING THAT'S NO
PROBLEM WHEN HE KNEW ACCORDING
TO THE INFORMATION I HAVE RIGHT
NOW HE KNEW THAT THAT WAS NOT
TRUE.
>> Brown: ANOTHER REPUBLICAN,
MISSOURI SENATOR ROY BLUNT, SAID
IF THE REPORTS ABOUT MILLER ARE
TRUE HE SHOULD RESIGN OR BE
FIRED.
BUT THE CHAMBER'S DEMOCRATIC
MAJORITY LEADER HARRY REID SAID
SUCH TALK IS PREMATURE.
>> THE PERSON WHO WAS WORKING ON
THIS AT THE TIME IT HAPPENED WAS
A REPUBLICAN APPOINTEE DURING
THE BUSH YEARS.
THE MAN ACTING NOW IS TEMPORARY.
HE'S ACTING AND WE'RE LOOKING TO
GET A PERMANENT PERSON THERE.
SO TO ACT TO HAVE SOME TEMPORARY
GUY RESIGN, HIS NAME HE'S DONE A
GOOD JOB.
>> Brown: LAWMAKERS WILL HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO QUESTION
MILLER ON FRIDAY WHEN HE
TESTIFIES BEFORE THE HOUSE WAYS
AND MEANS COMMITTEE.
MEANWHILE, ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDER SAID HE'S ORDERED THE
F.B.I. TO SEE IF ANY LAWS WERE
BROKEN.
>> I THINK AS EVERYONE CAN AGREE
THIS WAS IF NOT CRIMINAL
CERTAINLY OUTRAGEOUS AND
UNACCEPTABLE BUT WE ARE
EXAMINING THE FACTS TO SEE IF
THERE WERE CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.
>> Brown: A FULL REPORT ON THE
MATTER BY A TREASURY DEPARTMENT
INSPECTOR GENERAL IS EXPECTED TO
SHED FURTHER LIGHT ON THE
MATTER.
THAT REPORT HAS, IN FACT, BEEN
RELEASED A SHORT TIME AGO.
JOINING US WITH THE LATEST,
JULIET EILPERIN AND ELIZA NEWLIN
CARNEY.
JULIET, I GUESS YOU'VE BEEN
DOING FAST READING OVER THERE.
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT THE
I.G. REPORT.
WHAT DOES IT SAY?
>> SO THE MOST SIGNIFICANT NEW
INFORMATION COMING FROM THE I.G.
REPORT IS ESSENTIALLY SAYING
THAT BECAUSE OF THIS SCREENING
CRITERIA THAT THAT APPLIED TO
CONSERVATIVE GROUP FRS THERE WAS
VIRTUALLY NO WORK DONE IN TERMS
OF APPROVING THESE GROUPS FOR 13
MONTHS AND OVER A PERIOD OF 18
MONTHS THEY HAD CRITERIA THAT,
AGAIN, SINGLED OUT GROUPS WITH
NAMES SUCH AS "TEAM" "PATRIOT"
AND "9/12."
SO THAT'S THE MOST INTERESTING
NEW INFORMATION.
IT ALSO POINTS OUT THAT SOME
GROUPS SAY IT'S -- FACED
CONSIDERABLE DELAYS IN SOME
CASES MORE THAN THREE YEARS,
SPANING TWO ELECTION CYCLES SO
IT GIVES YOU A SENSE OF WHAT WAS
THE REAL-WORLD IMPACT OF THIS
EFFORT BY THE I.R.S. TO
CATEGORIZE ALL OF THESE
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS IN ONE
PLACE.
>> Brown: DOES IT TELL US ANY
MORE ABOUT WHO IS MAKING THESE
DECISIONS?
WHAT THE -- NAME NAMES OR
ANYTHING WITHIN THE I.R.S.?
>> NO, IN FACT, OF COURSE, IT
DOES RAISE SOME QUESTIONSS.
THERE'S A GREAT DEAL THAT'S
REDACTED, INCLUDING AN EVENT AT
THE VERY BEGINNING OF THE
TIMELINE IN FEBRUARY, 2010,
WHICH IS COMPLETELY BLACKED OUT.
SO IT STILL DOES RAISE REAL
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHO KNEW WHAT
WHEN AND WHAT WAS THE
INSTIGATION FOR THIS PROGRAM IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
>> Brown: ELIZA, WHAT ABOUT THE
ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE F.B.I.
STARTING A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION?
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT HA THEY'RE
LOOKING SENATE.
>> IT'S, IN FACT, A VIOLATION OF
LAW FOR THE I.R.S. TO ENGAGE IN
DISCRIMINATION IN THE
ENFORCEMENT OF THE TAX CODE SO
THERE COULD HAVE BEEN CRIMINAL
VIOLATIONS HERE AND I THINK TO
SOME DEGREE THIS REFLECTS THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION TRYING TO
GET A LITTLE BIT AHEAD OF THIS
CONTROVERSY.
>> Brown: AND WHAT DO YOU SEE?
YOU'VE HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK AT
SOME OF THE I.G. REPORT.
WHAT DOES IT TELL YOU ABOUT THE
WORKINGS OF THE I.R.S.?
>> WELL, THE I.R.S. HAS LONG
BEEN SUBJECT TO COMPLAINTS FROM
GROUPS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
AISLE THAT THIS ENFORCEMENT OF
THIS AREA OF TAX LAW: NAMELY,
POLITICAL ACTIVITY BY TAX-EXEMPT
GROUPS, IS VAGUE AND
INCONSISTENT AND EVERYTHING WE
SEE IN THIS REPORT AND IN THE
REPORTS ABOUT THIS SO FAR
SUGGEST THAT THE I.R.S. TO SOME
DEGREE REALLY DIDN'T KNOW WHAT
IT WAS LOOKING FOR, WHAT IT WAS
TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH.
THE OFFICIALS WERE SAID, FIRST,
TO LOOK FOR ONE SET OF CRITERIA,
THEN TO LOOK FOR ANOTHER SET OF
CRITERIA, THE CRITERIA KEPT
CHANGING FROM YEAR TO YEAR SO IT
CREATES AN IMPRESSION OF AN
AGENCY THAT, FRANKLY, DIDN'T
KNOW WHAT IT WAS DOING.
>> Brown: AND AS WE SAW, THE
ACTING DIRECTOR WROTE TODAY THE
AGENCY TOOK SHORT CUTS BECAUSE
OF SO MANY APPLICATIONS COMING.
THE CONTEXT THERE IS THE CHANGES
IN THE CAMPAIGN FINANCE LAWS?
>> YES.
AND WE SHOULD SAY THAT IN THE
I.R.S.' DEFENSE THEY HAD
LITERALLY THOUSANDS OF
APPLICATIONS FOR TAX EXEMPTION.
THESE HAD MORE THAN DOUBLED
SINCE THE CITIZENS UNITED RULING
IN 2010 WHICH DEREGULATED
POLITICAL SPENDING AND WHICH TO
SOME DEGREE INVITED THESE GROUPS
TO PLAY A BIGGER POLITICAL ROLE.
SO AT THE SAME TIME, THE I.R.S.
HAD CUTS IN ITS BUDGET, CUTS IN
ITS STAFF.
SO THEY CLEARLY WERE
OVERWHELMED.
BUT IT DOESN'T TAKE AWAY FROM
THE FACT THAT THEY'VE LONG BEEN
CRITICIZED FOR HAVING SUBJECTIVE
AND VAGUE CRITERIA FOR HOW TO
REGULATE.
>> Brown: JULIET EILPERIN, ONE
THING WE DO KNOW FROM YOUR STORY
IS THAT THIS DID GO BEYOND --
THE ORIGINAL REPORTS, BEYOND THE
OFFICE IN CINCINNATI.
SO WHERE'S THE FOCUS THAT YOU
SEE FOR ALL OF THESE QUESTIONS
RIGHT NOW?
>> WELL, I THINK STILL
ULTIMATELY THESE ARE QUESTIONS
THAT PEOPLE LIKE STEVEN MILLER
WILL HAVE TO ANSWER, THE ACTING
COMMISSIONER.
IT'S OBVIOUS THAT WHILE, AGAIN,
CINCINNATI PLAYED THE CENTRAL
ROLE BECAUSE THAT WAS THE
DIVISION CHARGED WITH
CONSIDERING THESE APPLICATIONS
FOR TAX-EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS,
YOU HAD OTHER FIELD OFFICES AS
WELL AS HEADQUARTERS INVOLVED IN
IT AND REALLY THEY'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO ANSWER SOME KEY
QUESTIONS ABOUT TO WHAT EXTENT
DID PEOPLE BEYOND LOIS LERNER
MAKE DECISIONS ABOUT WHAT WAS
THE APPROACH THAT I.R.S.
RANK-AND-FILE EMPLOYEES WERE
TAKING WHEN THEY WERE TARGETING
THESE GROUPS.
>> Pelley: AND STAYING WITH YOU,
WHAT DO YOU SEE IS THE WHITE
HOUSE RESPONSE SO FAR?
WE CAN SEE WHAT THEY'RE SAYING
PUBLICLY.
CAN YOU TELL WHAT'S GOING ON
BEHIND THE SCENES?
>> IT'S A LITTLE UNCLEAR, THOUGH
I THINK.
AND AS THE CLIP THAT YOU PLAYED
FROM SENATE MAJORITY LEADER
HARRY REID INDICATED, I WOULDN'T
BE SURPRISED IF THEY'RE WORKING
VERY QUICKLY TO GET A NEW
NOMINEE FOR COMMISSIONER OF THE
I.R.S. IN PLACE SO THAT, FOR
EXAMPLE, THEY CAN AT LEAST
ADDRESS THAT ONE ASPECT NOW THAT
STEVEN MILLER IS COMING URN
FIRE.
IT WOULDN'T SURPRISE ME IF THEY
WERE TRYING TO COME UP WITH A
NEW REPLACEMENT WHO WOULDN'T BE
ASSOCIATED WITH THESE
ACTIVITIES.
SO -- BUT PUBLICLY THEY'VE BEEN
VERY TENTATIVE.
THEY SAID THEY WOULDN'T COMMENT
IN DETAIL UNTIL THE I.G. REPORT
WAS RELEASED.
NOW THAT IT IS WE HAVEN'T GOT
OUR COMMENT YET BUT WE'RE HOPING
THEY'LL BE MORE FORTHCOMING.
>> Brown: ELIZA, LAST WORD, WHAT
DO YOU SEE?
>> I THINK THIS IS JUST GOING TO
ESCALATE.
THIS PROBL OFEM HOW THE I.R.S.
REGULATES POLITICAL GROUPS ISN'T
GOING GO AWAY.
THERE AREN'T EASY ANSWERS.
IT SWHES DIFFICULT TO DRAW
BRIGHT LINES AROUND POLITICAL
ACTIVITY.
>> Brown: YOU MEAN THE LARGER
PICTURE?
>> YES, AND I THINK IT WILL
CONTINUE TO BE A POLITICAL
PROBLEM FOR THE ADMINISTRATION.
>> Brown: ELIZA NEWLIN CAR
CARNEY AND JULIET EILPERIN,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: COMING UP, AN
AMERICAN DIPLOMAT IN RUSSIA
ARRESTED FOR BEING A SPY AND HOW
TECHNOLOGY IS AFFECTING OUR
DEMOCRACY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: A PHILADELPHIA
ABORTION DOCTOR WILL SERVE LIFE
IN PRISON WITHOUT PAROLE FOR
MURDERING THREE BABIES.
DR. KERMIT GOSNELL WAS CONVICTED
MONDAY OF KILLING THE BABIES,
MOMENTS AFTER THEY WERE BORN
ALIVE AT HIS GRIMY CLINIC.
TODAY THE 72-YEAR-OLD GOSNELL
FORFEITED HIS RIGHT TO APPEAL,
IN A BID TO AVOID THE DEATH
PENALTY.
THE DEATH TOLL IN THE CIVIL WAR
IN SYRIA MAY BE FAR HIGHER THAN
REPORTED SO FAR.
THE SYRIAN OBSERVATORY FOR HUMAN
RIGHTS, BASED IN LONDON,
ESTIMATED TODAY THAT AT LEAST
94,000 PEOPLE HAVE DIED IN THE
TWO-YEAR CONFLICT.
THAT EXCEEDS THE U.N.'S NUMBERS
BY MORE THAN 20,000.
THE HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP DREW ITS
INFORMATION FROM SOURCES ACROSS
SYRIA.
IT SAID THE DEATH FIGURE COULD
BE AS HIGH AS 120,000.
IN BANGLADESH, A PRAYER SERVICE
TODAY HONORED THE 1,127 PEOPLE
WHO PERISHED IN LAST MONTH'S
GARMENT FACTORY COLLAPSE IN
DHAKA.
THOUSANDS OF MOURNERS RETURNED
TO THE SITE OF THE DISASTER TO
PAY TRIBUTE TO THE VICTIMS AND
TO THOSE SURVIVORS WHO REMAIN
HOSPITALIZED.
THE SEARCH FOR BODIES ENDED
YESTERDAY.
IN A RELATED DEVELOPMENT, WAL-
MART JOINED OTHER RETAILERS
TODAY IN PLEDGING IN-DEPTH
SAFETY INSPECTIONS AT THE
BANGLADESH FACTORIES IT USES.
THE U.S. DEFENSE DEPARTMENT NOW
PLANS TO FURLOUGH MORE THAN
600,000 CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES FOR
11 DAYS THROUGH SEPTEMBER.
SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL ANNOUNCED
IT TODAY AT A TOWN HALL WITH
PENTAGON WORKERS.
THOUSANDS OF WORKERS AT
SHIPYARDS WILL BE EXEMPT, AND
THERE WON'T BE AS MANY FURLOUGH
DAYS AS ORIGINALLY FEARED.
BUT HAGEL SAID HE COULD NOT
AVOID FURLOUGHS ENTIRELY UNDER
MANDATORY BUDGET CUTS FROM
SEQUESTRATION.
>> I CAN'T RUN THIS INSTITUTION
INTO THE DITCH.
THIS WILL GO UNTIL THE END TO
HAVE FISCAL YEAR.
WE'VE TAKEN IT AS CLOSE TO THE
LINE AS WE CAN AND IT'S STILL
CAPABLE OF PROTECTING THIS
COUNTRY AND THIS COUNTRY'S
INTEREST AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Holman: THE FURLOUGHS ARE SET
TO BEGIN IN EARLY JULY.
THREE U.S. TROOPS WERE KILLED IN
SOUTHERN AFGHANISTAN TODAY.
NATO SAID THEY DIED WHEN A
ROADSIDE BOMB STRUCK THEIR
CONVOY IN THE ZHARI DISTRICT OF
KANDAHAR PROVINCE.
A DAY EARLIER, A TRUCK BOMB
KILLED THREE GEORGIAN SOLDIERS
IN THE NATO FORCE.
SO FAR THIS YEAR, 58 FOREIGN
TROOPS HAVE DIED IN AFGHANISTAN,
INCLUDING 44 AMERICANS.
AUTHORS OF A SWEEPING U.S.
IMMIGRATION BILL DEFEATED NEW
EFFORTS TODAY TO MAKE MAJOR
CHANGES IN THE MEASURE.
THE SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
SPENT A SECOND DAY VOTING ON
SOME OF THE HUNDREDS OF PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS.
SUPPORTERS TURNED BACK A
REPUBLICAN PROPOSAL FOR EYE
SCANS ANDINGE FR-PRINTS TO TRACK
THOSE ENTERING AND LEAVING THE
COUNTRY.
THE OSCAR-WINNING ACTOR AND
DIRECTOR ANGELINA JOLIE HAS
ANNOUNCED SHE HAD A PREVENTIVE
DOUBLE MASTECTOMY.
SHE SAYS SHE UNDERWENT THE
SURGERY AFTER LEARNING SHE WAS
STRONGLY PREDISPOSED TO GETTING
BREAST CANCER.
JOLIE TOLD HER STORY IN AN
OPINION PIECE IN "THE NEW YORK
TIMES."
SHE SAID SHE HOPES IT WILL HELP
OTHER WOMEN IN SIMILAR
SITUATIONS.
A GENETIC TEST FOUND JOLIE HAD
AN 87% CHANCE OF GETTING BREAST
CANCER.
HER MOTHER DIED OF THE DISEASE
AT AGE 56.
WE HAVE MORE, ONLINE, ABOUT THE
GENE THAT INCREASED JOLIE'S RISK
OF DEVELOPING THE DISEASE.
THAT'S ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
THERE MAY BE NO BENEFIT TO
SHARPLY RESTRICTING SALT INTAKE,
AND IT MAY ACTUALLY DO HARM.
THE INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE
REPORTS TODAY THAT AMERICANS DO
EAT FAR TOO MUCH SALT, AND SAYS
SOME REDUCTION IS GOOD.
BUT RESEARCHERS FOUND NO
EVIDENCE THAT DRASTICALLY
CUTTING BACK HELPS OVERALL HEART
HEALTH.
THE PANEL CALLED FOR MORE AND
BETTER RESEARCH TO FIND THE BEST
LEVEL.
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY BOARD CALLED TODAY FOR
STATES TO CUT THE THRESHOLD FOR
DRUNKEN DRIVING BY NEARLY HALF.
THE BOARD RECOMMENDED LOWERING
THE MAXIMUM ALLOWED BLOOD
ALCOHOL LEVEL FROM .08 TO .05.
IT SAID THAT STANDARD HAS
SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED HIGHWAY
DEATHS AROUND THE WORLD.
THE NEW RECOMMENDATION
TRANSLATES TO ABOUT ONE DRINK
FOR A WOMAN WEIGHING LESS THAN
120 POUNDS AND TWO FOR A MAN
WEIGHING AROUND 160 POUNDS.
ON WALL STREET, STOCKS ROSE TO
FRESH HIGHS, PARTLY ON NEWS THAT
SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS ARE A BIT
MORE OPTIMISTIC ABOUT THEIR
PROSPECTS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 123 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,215.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 23
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 3462.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN TO THE
OTHER STORY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WAS CRITICIZED
FOR, THE COLLECTION OF
JOURNALISTS' PHONE RECORDS IN
THE NAME OF TRACKING DOWN
CLASSIFIED LEAKS.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS SAYS IT WAS
NOTIFIED FRIDAY THAT THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT SECRETLY SUBPOENAED
RECORDS FOR MORE THAN 20 OF ITS
PHONE LINES.
THE A.P.'S KATHLEEN CARROLL SAYS
THEY LISTED OUTGOING CALLS FROM
APRIL AND MAY OF 2012.
>> THEY HAVEN'T TOLD US WHAT
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR AND NOR HAVE
THEY EXPLAINED WHY WE GOT NO
PRIOR NOTICE WHICH OUR LAWYERS
TELL US NOT ONLY IS CUSTOMARY
BUT REQUIRED.
>> Woodruff: A.P.'S PRESIDENT
AND C.E.O. GARY PRUITT SENT A
LETTER OF PROTEST TO ATTORNEY
GENERAL ERIC HOLDER.
IN IT HE WROTE:
HE SAID IT AMOUNTS TO "A SERIOUS
INTERFERENCE WITH A.P.'S
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO GATHER
AND REPORT THE NEWS."
PRUITT DEMANDED THAT D.O.J.
RETURN THE RECORDS AND DESTROY
ANY COPIES, BUT THIS AFTERNOON,
ATTORNEY GENERAL HOLDER SAID HE
HAD RECUSED HIMSELF AT THE START
OF THE PROBE.
INSTEAD HE SAID DEPUTY ATTORNEY
GENERAL JAMES KOHL AUTHORIZED
THE SUBPOENA FOR THE A.P.
RECORDS
>> I DON'T KNOW ALL THAT WENT
INTO THE FORMULATION OF THE
SUBPOENA.
THIS WAS A VERY SERIOUS LEAK AND
A VERY, VERY SERIOUS LEAK.
I'VE BEEN A PROSECUTOR SINCE
1976 AND I HAVE TO SAY THAT THIS
IS AMONG IF NOT THE MOST SERIOUS
IT'S WITHIN THE TOP TWO OR THREE
MOST SERIOUS LEAKS I'VE EVER
SEEN.
IT PUT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AT
RISK.
THAT IS NOT HYPERBOLE.
IT PUT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AT
RISK.
AND WE'RE TRYING TO DETERMINE
WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FAR REQUIRED
AGGRESSIVE ACTION.
>> Woodruff: HOLDER SUGGESTED
THE FOCUS IS ON GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS WHO DID THE LEAKING
MORE THAN ON REPORTERS.
>> WE'VE INVESTIGATED CASES ON
THE BASIS OF THE FACTS, NOT AS A
RESULT OF A POLICY TO GET THE
PRESS OR TO DO ANYTHING OF THAT
NATURE.
THE FACTS IN THE LAW HAVE
DICTATED OUR ACTIONS IN THAT
REGARD.
>> Woodruff: AND IN A WRITTEN
RESPONSE TO THE A.P.'S PRUITT,
KOHL SITED A MAY 2012
INVESTIGATION INTO THE
DISCLOSURE OF CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.
HE ALSO SAID THAT SUBPOENAED
COVERED ONLY A PORTION OF THAT
TWO-MONTH PERIOD AND INCLUDE
PERSONNEL INVOLVED IN THE
REPORTING OF CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.
ON MAY 7 OF LAST YEAR, THE A.P.
REPORTED THAT A C.I.A. OPERATION
IN YEMEN HAD FOILED AN AL QAEDA
PLOT TO BOMB AN AIRLINER BOUND
FOR THE U.S.
THAT SAME DAY A.P. REPORTER ADAM
GOLDMAN SPOKE TO THE NEWSHOUR'S
KWAME HOLMAN ABOUT THE DECISION
TO PUBLISH
>> YOU HAD BEEN IN DISCUSSIONS
WITH THE U.S. GOVERNMENT ABOUT
HOLDING THE STORY AND DECIDED TO
GO WITH IT TODAY.
THE GOVERNMENT DID NOT WANT THIS
STORY REPORTED?
>> LAST WEEK MY COLLEAGUES AND I
LEARNED ABOUT THIS PLOT AS IT
WAS UNFOLDING.
AND WE AGREED FOR NATIONAL
SECURITY REASONS THAT WE WOULD
NOT PUBLISH ONCE THOSE CONCERNS
PASSED WE DECIDED TODAY THAT THE
PUBLIC HAD A RIGHT TO KNOW THAT
THE U.S. HAD THWARTEDAT A VERY S
PLOT AGAINST AVIATION.
>> Woodruff: THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT HAS NOT CONFIRMED
THAT STORY IS THE FOCUS OF THE
INVESTIGATION AND THE WHITE
HOUSE, JAY CORNY WOULD NOT GIVE
SPECIFICS.
>> I CAN'T COMMENT ON THE
SPECIFICS BUT I CAN TELL YOU THE
PRESIDENT FEELS STRONGLY THAT WE
NEED A -- THE PRESS TO BE ABLE
TO BE UNFETTERED IN ITS PURSUIT
OF INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM.
HE IS ALSO MINDFUL OF THE NEED
FOR SECRET AND CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION TO REMAIN SECRET AND
CLASSIFIED IN ORDER TO PROTECT
OUR NATIONAL SECURITY INTERESTS.
SO THERE ARE -- THERE IS A
CAREFUL BALANCE HERE THAT THE
MUST BE ATTAINED.
>> Woodruff: POLITICIANS FROM
BOTH PARTIES WARNED THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT MAY HAVE GONE TOO
FAR.
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR PATRICK LEAHY
CHAIRING THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
SAID HE IS VERY TROUBLED.
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN REINCE PRIEBUS CALLED
FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL HOLDER TO
RESIGN.
MORE ON ALL THIS NOW FROM AN
ATTORNEY REPRESENTING THE A.P.
DAVID SCHULZ SPECIALIZES IN
FIRST AMENDMENT ISSUES AND IS A
PARTNER AT LEVINE SULLIVAN KOCH
AND SCHULZ.
WE INVITED THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE TO APPEAR ON THE PROGRAM
BUT OFFICIALS DECLINED OUR
OFFER.
DAVE SCHULZ, WELCOME TO THE
NEWSHOUR.
FIRST OF ALL, WHY DOES THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS CONSIDER THIS A
VIOLATION OF THEIR
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT?
>> WELL, JUDY, THIS IS A SERIOUS
ISSUE BECAUSE WITHOUT SOURCES
THERE ISN'T THE NEWS.
REPORTERS NEED SOURCES TO FIGURE
OUT WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE
GOVERNMENT AND THIS WAS REALLY A
VERY LARGE-SCALE INTRUSION INTO
A.P.'S NEWS-GATHERING
ACTIVITIES.
THE SUBPOENA SOUGHT, AS YOU
MENTIONED, 20 PHONE LINESINAROUE
COUNTRY WHERE 100 OR MORE
REPORTERS -- 100 OR MORE
DIFFERENT REPORTERS WORK SO IT
WAS EXTREMELY BROAD AND THE
IMPACT ON THAT IS REALLY
DEVASTATING BECAUSE IT GIVES THE
GOVERNMENT KIND OF AN ABILITY TO
SEE WHAT THE A.P. WAS DOING, HOW
IT GOES ABOUT ITS BUSINESS, WHO
IT WAS TALKING TO NOT ON ANY
PARTICULAR STORY BUT ON EVERY
STORY COVERED DURING THAT PERIOD
OF TIME AND IT'S JUST
OVERREACHING IN A FUNDAMENTAL
WAY THAT HAS AN ADVERSE IMPACT
ON THE PRESS.
>> WE HEARD THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
SAY THIS WAS A LEAK OF
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
HE SAID IT WAS ONE OF THE MOST
SERIOUS HE'S EVER SEEN AND THE
DAMAGE IT DID TO U.S. NATIONAL
SECURITY.
IS WHY DOESN'T THAT JUSTIFY A
FULL-FLEDGED INVESTIGATION?
>> WELL, THERE ALWAYS ARE ISSUES
AND BALANCES, I THINK, AS THE
WHITE HOUSE SAID TODAY BETWEEN
NATIONAL SECURITY AND THE FREE
PRESS.
BUT THIS SORT OF ACTION SHOULD
BE TAKEN IN VERY, VERY RARE
CIRCUMSTANCES AND I DON'T THINK
THAT THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
HAS DEMONSTRATED THAT WHAT IT
DID WAS APPROPRIATE HERE.
CERTAINLY THERE'S A LOT OF
UNANSWERED QUESTIONS.
20 JOURNALISTS INVOLVED IN THE
STORY?
WE ALSO KNOW THAT THE LEAK THAT
WE THINK THAT THEY WERE
INVESTIGATING WAS A STORY THAT
WAS HELD BY THE A.P..
IT WAS HANDLED RESPONSIBLY.
WHEN THEY FUND GOVERNMENT HAD
CONCERNS ABOUT THE TIMING OF THE
STORY IT WASN'T BROADCAST OR
RELEASED BY THE A.P..
SO THERE WAS A RESPONSIBLE
EFFORT BY THE PRESS HERE.
NOW, WHETHER THE GOVERNMENT HAS
A RIGHT TO GO AFTER CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION, IT DOES.
BUT BEAR IN MIND IF THE
GOVERNMENT CAN GET FROM THE
PRESS ANY TIME IT WANTS TO
INFORMATION ABOUT WHO ITS
SOURCES ARE PRETTY SOON THE ONLY
THING WE'LL KNOW ABOUT THE
GOVERNMENT IS WHAT THEY WANT TO
TELL US.
THIS IS NOT HOW THINGS WORK AND
IT'S A TREMENDOUS ADVERSE AFFECT
ON A FREE PRESS.
>> Woodruff: I HEAR YOU, BUT I
ALSO HEARD THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
SAY THAT WHAT HAPPENED -- HE
SAID THIS LEAK PUT THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE AT RISK AND HE REPEATED
THAT.
>> SURE.
AND IF THAT'S THE CASE THERE ARE
THINGS THAT CAN BE DONE.
WE'VE HAD A SAD EXPERIENCE THAT
GREW OUT OF THE WATERGATE ERA
AND THERE ARE REGULATIONS IN
PLACE THAT WERE PUT IN TO REIGN
IN THE EXCESSES OF THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT IN GOING AFTER
REPORTERS IN THE POST-VIETNAM,
POST-WATERGATE ERA.
AND THERE ARE A NUMBER OF THOSE
THINGS IN THOSE REGS.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL IS SUPPOSED
TO PERSONALLY SIGN OFF ON A
SUBPOENA BEFORE IT'S ISSUES BUT
MORE IMPORTANTLY BEFORE A
SUBPOENA GOES OUT FOR SORT OF
INFORMATION THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO
BE ABLE TO VERIFY THAT THE
INFORMATION IS CRITICAL TO A
SUCCESSFUL INVESTIGATION AND
THAT IT'S NOT AVAILABLE FOR ANY
ALTERNATIVE SOURCE AND THEN THEY
HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO BE SURE
IT'S NARROWLY DRAWN.
WE WOULD LIKE AN EXPLANATION
FROM THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT OF
WHAT THEYSSURE
THEMSELVES THEY COULDN'T GET
WHAT THEY NEEDED FROM OTHER
SOURCES AND HOW THEY CAN JUSTIFY
THIS SUBPOENA AS NARROWLY DRAWN.
AND THERE'S ONE OTHER SAFEGUARD
I WANT TO MENTION BECAUSE I
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT.
THE WAY THE REGULATIONS ARE
WRITTEN, WHEN THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT WANTS THIS
INFORMATION, THIS TYPE OF
INFORMATION, THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO
COME TO THE PRESS FIRST AND TELL
THEM WHAT THEY WANT AND
NEGOTIATE SO THAT THEY CAN
NARROW IT AND GET WHAT THEY
NEED.
THEY'RE ONLY AUTHORIZED TO DO
THIS IN A SECRET WAY AS WHEN
DONE HERE WHEN THEY CAN
DEMONSTRATE THAT DISCLOSING IN
ADVANCE WOULD UNDERMINE THE
INTEGRITY OF THE INVESTIGATION.
IT'S REALLY HARD TO UNDERSTAND
ON THESE FACTS HOW TELEPHONE
LOGS FROM OVER A YEAR AGO THAT
WERE SOUGHT IN CONNECTION WITH
AN ONGOING INVESTIGATION THAT
HAD BEEN PUBLICLY DISCLOSED-- WE
KNEW THERE WAS A SPECIAL
PROSECUTOLOOKING AT THIS-- HOW
ADVISING THE A.P. IN ADVANCE
WOULD HAVE JEOPARDIZED THAT.
AND THAT'S IMPORTANT BECAUSE IF
THEY HAD ADVISED US IN ADVANCE,
A COURT WOULD HAVE BEEN ALLOWED
AN OPPORTUNITY TO REVIEW THAT.
THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN.
>> Brown: ALL WE HAVE TO GO ON
AT THIS POINT ARE THE WORDS OF
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL--
BECAUSE THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
RECUSED HIMSELF.
WE KNOW IN THAT LETTER FROM
MR. KOHL, THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY
GENERAL, HE SAID THIS WAS ONLY
DONE "AFTER ALL OTHER REASONABLE
ALTERNATIVE INVESTIGATIVE STEPS
HAVE BEEN TAKEN."
HE SAID THERE HAVE BEEN 550
INTERVIEWS, TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
DOCUMENTS THEY HAD LOOKED AT
BEFORE THEY TURNED TO THE PHONE
RECORDS.
>> AND, AGAIN, THAT'S NOT FALL
THE LETTER.
I'M NOT SURE WHERE YOU'RE
GETTING SOME OF THOSE NUMBERS.
BUT ONE OF THE KEY POINTS HERE
IS, JUDY, IS IF THEY HAD FILED
THE PROCEDURES AND NOTIFIED THE
A.P. AHEAD OF TIME, A.P. WOULD
HAVE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO ASK
A JUDGE TO REVIEW THE SITUATION
AND DETERMINE WHETHER IT
SATISFIED THE CRITERIA, THAT'S
AN IMPORTANT SAFEGUARD THAT WAS
SHORT CITLATERAL ACTION THAT
HAS A HUGE IMPACT.
THE REASON THERE'S BEEN SUCH A
REACTION IN THE PRESS IS THAT IT
REALLY CRIPPLE IT IS ABILITY OF
THE PRESS TO DO IT JOB.
WHAT SOURCE IS GOING TO TALK
WITH A NEWS ORGANIZATION THAT'S
VIEWED AS BEING AN INVESTIGATIVE
TOOL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE AND IF THEIR RECORDS CAN
FREELY BE OBTAINED IN THIS
MATTER THEN THERE'S REALLY A
PROBLEM.
THIS IS A BIG STEP.
>> Pelley: THAT DESCRIPTION I
WAS USING, I WAS QUOTING THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL AS SAYING THERE
HAD BEEN AN EXHAUSTIVE SEARCH
AND THEN I GUESS THERE WERE SOME
OTHER ANONYMOUS QUOTES FROM
OTHERS.
BUT I GUESS MY FINAL QUESTION,
DAVID SCHULZ, IS WHERE DOES THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS, WHERE SHOULD
OTHERS IN THE MEDIA DRAW THE
LINE?
BECAUSE IF THE ADMINISTRATION IS
SAYING CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN LEAKED, IT
PUT PEOPLE'S LIVES AT RISK AND
THE JOURNALISTS ARE SAYING "BUT
WE NEED TO BE ABLE TO DO OUR
JOBS" WHERE IS THE -- WHERE
SHOULD THAT LINE BE DRAWN?
>> IT'S A DIFFICULT QUESTION AND
I WON'T DENY THAT THERE ARE
CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE THE
GOVERNMENT MAY NEED THE CROSS
THAT LINE BUT IT SHOULD BE VERY,
VERY RARE.
BEAR IN MIND IN THE 35 YEARS
I'VE BEEN PRACTICING LAW I ONLY
KNOW OF ONE OTHER INSTANCE WHERE
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE WHEN
AFTER A REPORTER'S RECORDS
WITHOUT GIVING THEM ADVANCED
NOTICE AND THAT WAS JUST A
SINGLE REPORTER FOR HIS HOME
RECORDS AND OFFICE RECORDS.
THIS IS 20 DIFFERENT PHONE LINES
AND NOT OF INDIVIDUAL REPORTERS
BUT OF BUREAUS.
IT'S MASSIVELY OVERBROAD AND I
THINK THAT'S PART OF THE
PROBLEM.
IT'S NOT TO SAY THE GOVERNMENT
DOESN'T HAVE LEGITIMATE RIGHTS
HERE BUT IT JUST OVERREACHED
DRAMATICALLY AND SHORT CIRCUIT
IT HAD PROCEDURAL SAFEGUARDS
THAT CAN EXIST SO WE KNOW THE
SENSITIVES, THE FIRST AMENDMENT
RIGHTINGS, THE NEED OF THE
PUBLIC TO HAVE INFORMATION ABOUT
THE GOVERNMENT IS BEING
PROTECTED.
>> Woodruff: DAVID SCHULZ,
ATTORNEY REPRESENTING THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS, WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: NEXT, FRED DE SAM
LAZARO REPORTS FROM INDIA ON A
GROUP THAT'S PUT TOGETHER
PERHAPS THE WORLD'S LARGEST
CAMPAIGN TO IMPROVE REMEDIAL
EDUCATION.
HIS STORY IS PART OF OUR "AGENTS
FOR CHANGE" SERIES.
>> Reporter:  MADHAV CHAVAN IS
TRYING TO REVOLUTIONIZE THE WAY
INDIA'S CHILDREN LEARN AND THE
WAY THEY ARE TAUGHT, STARTING AS
EARLY AS POSSIBLE.
AS THESE PRE-SCHOOLERS IDENTIFY
THE FIRST LETTER IN HINDI FOR
THE WORD "MANGO," HE EGGED THEM
ON.
>> SO WHAT KIND OF FACE DO YOU
MAKE WHEN THE MANGO IS SOUR?
>> Reporter: UNFORTUNATELY,
CHAVAN SAYS, AS THEY GET OLDER,
MOST OF THESE CHILDREN WILL BE
BOUND FOR SCHOOLS THAT ARE
FAILING THEIR STUDENTS ON MANY
LEVELS, BEGINNING WITH RIGID,
OUTDATED METHODS OF INSTRUCTION.
>> THIS REGIMENTATION,OTE R
LEARNING, LEARNING BY HEART,
TELL ME THE ANSWER-- THAT IS
WHAT KIDS ARE BEING TAUGHT.
NOW THIS HAS TO CHANGE.
>> Reporter: CHAVAN FOUNDED A
GROUP 19 YEARS AGO CALLED
PRATHAM, OR FIRST, AIMED AT
GENERATING A LOVE OF LEARNING.
IT HAS TRAINED ABOUT 120,000
YOUNG TUTORS AND COMMUNITY
VOLUNTEERS TO RUN LEARNING
CENTERS AND CAMPS.
SO FAR, THREE MILLION CHILDREN
HAVE BEEN TUTORED IN RENTED
ROOMS, HOUSES OF WORSHIP AND IN
SCHOOLS THEMSELVES IN LOW-INCOME
COMMUNITIES ACROSS INDIA.
>> WHO CAN SHOUT THE LOUDEST?
(SCREECHING)
>> Reporter: PRATHAM'S GOAL IS
TO CHANGE THE WAY SCHOOL HAS
LONG BEEN PERCEIVED HERE: A
SOLEMN, TEMPLE OF LEARNING.
>> THE KIDS THINK TO BE IN
SCHOOL IS TO STAND LE THIKAT.
AND THE WHOLE INFORMALITY, NON-
FORMALITY OF THE LEARNING
PROCESS IS COMPLETELY LOST.
>> Reporter: IT TAKES THE FUN
OUT OF LEARNING, BASICALLY?
>> YES.
>> Reporter: WITH PROFOUND
CONSEQUENCES.
ASIDE FROM AN ELITE SYSTEM THAT
SERVES ABOUT 10% OF INDIA'S 140
MILLION SCHOOL CHILDREN, CHAVAN
SAYS EDUCATION-- LARGELY THE
DOMAIN OF CENTRAL AND STATE
GOVERNMENTS-- IS IN DEEP CRISIS.
>> AFTER SPENDING FIVE YEARS IN
A PRIMARY SCHOOL, BARELY ABOUT
50% OF KIDS CAN LEARN TO THE
LEVEL OF SECOND GRADE.
WE HAVE AN OLD SYSTEM OF GOING
FROM FIRST GRADE TO POST-
GRADUATION FOR A CERTAIN NUMBER
OF KIDS AND OTHERS FALL BY THE
WAYSIDE.
THE COMPLAINT OF THE EMPLOYERS
WHO HAVE THE VERY ENTRY-LEVEL
POSITIONS IS THAT THE PRODUCT OF
THE SCHOOLING SYSTEM IS NOT EVEN
TRAINABLE, FORGET ABOUT
EMPLOYABLE.
>> Reporter: IT'S EASY TO SEE
THE PROBLEM UNFOLD IN THE POORLY
EQUIPPED AND CROWDED CLASSROOMS.
A STUDENT-TEACHER RATIO OF 80:1
IS NOT UNCOMMON.
RUKHMINI BANERJEE IS THE AUTHOR
OF PRATHAM'S ANNUAL STATUS OF
EDUCATION REPORT.
>> YOU'RE A FIFTH GRADE TEACHER,
AND THIS IS A TYPICAL CLASSROOM
IN INDIA.
YOU HAVE KIDS THERE THAT ARE NOT
EVEN AT FIRST GRADE LEVEL.
YOU'RE A COMMITTED TEACHER, BUT
WHO ARE YOU GOING TO TEACH?
>> Reporter: AND YOU HAVE 80
KIDS.
>> YOU HAVE 80 KIDS.
SO YOU END UP TEACHING THE KIDS
WHO ARE EASIEST TO TEACH.
>> Reporter: UNDER BANERJEE, A
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PH.D,
PRATHAM HAS DEVELOPED PROGRAMS
TO BOOST STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT.
IT WORKS WITH HUNDREDS OF
SCHOOLS LIKE THIS ONE IN THE
SMALL TOWN OF JEHANABAD, IN THE
POPULOUS EASTERN BIHAR STATE.
INSTEAD OF CLUSTERING STUDENTS
BY AGE AND GRADE, THEY ARE
TESTED, THEN GROUPED BY SKILL
LEVEL IN MATH AND READING--
THOSE ABLE TO READ AT A ONE-WORD
LEVEL, FOR INSTANCE, A SENTENCE,
OR A PARAGRAPH.
SEVERAL MONTHS INTO THE PROGRAM,
PRINCIPAL RIZWANA PARVEEN SAYS
THERE IS MARKED IMPROVEMENT.
>> CHILDREN WHO COULD ONLY READ
A LETTER ARE NOW ALMOST READING
PARAGRAPHS.
AND CHILDREN WHO WERE READING
PARAGRAPHS ARE NOW READING WHOLE
STORIES.
>> NOW,HAT  WWE'RE GOING TO DO
HERE IS, WE'RE GOING TO READ
THESE SENTENCES CAREFULLY.
>> Reporter:  THE NEXT STEP IS
TO GET CHILDREN TO THINK AND
WRITE ABOUT WHAT THEY'RE
READING, AS A PRATHAM TUTOR DID
WITH CHILDREN IN THE SMALL BIHAR
VILLAGE OF SUPANCHAK.
TYPICALLY, STUDENTS ARE REQUIRED
TO MEMORIZE THE TEXT, WHETHER OR
NOT THEY UNDERSTAND IT.
>> READ IT AND UNDERSTAND IT.
AFTER YOU'VE FINISHED READING
IT, WRITE WHAT YOU THINK, OKAY?
>> YOU'RE READING A STORY SO
THAT YOU CAN THEN CHAT ABOUT IT.
NOW, THIS CHATTING ABOUT IT
OFTEN DOESN'T HAPN INPE OUR
SCHOOLS.
WE HAVE VERY TRADITIONAL NOTIONS
ABOUT WRITING.
WRITING HAS TO BE CORRECT, NOT
WRITING HAS TO BE FROM YOUR
HEART.
SO WE OFTEN ENCOURAGE KIDS TO
SAY WHAT YOU FEEL.
>> Reporter: PRATHAM BEGINS ITS
WORK IN COMMUNITIES LIKE THIS BY
TESTING CHILDREN'S READING AND
MATH.
THOSE WITH THE LOWEST SCORES
THEN ATTEND AN INTENSE SEVEN-DAY
LEARNING CAMP.
THIS ONE WAS HELD JUST OUTSIDE
THE VILLAGE SCHOOL.
THERE'S NO SHORTAGE OF
ENTHUSIASM AMONG CHILDREN WE
VISITED, WHO SAID THEY MUCH
PREFERRED LEARNING HERE THAN
FROM THEIR REGULAR SCHOOL.
A PEEK INSIDE MAY EXPLAIN.
THIS IS THE VILLAGE'S ONE-ROOM
SCHOOLHOUSE.
IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT SEES
MUCH ACADEMIC ACTIVITY.
IT'S MORE LIKE A STORAGE SHACK.
ICERE'S COW DUNG CAKES, WHH
ARE FUEL FOR COOKING.
THERE'S SOME POTS AND PANS, SOME
IRON REBAR.
AND EVEN IF IT WERE USED AS A
SCHOOL, THERE'S JUST 400 SQUARE
FEET OF SPACE FOR 109 ENROLLED
CHILDREN.
>> I LIKE THE WAY DIDI TEACHES
US.
>> Reporter: WHAT ABOUT SCHOOL?
>> I LIKE SCHOOL, ALSO.
>> Reporter: THESE SHY TEN- AND
11-YEAR-OLDS DARED NOT CRITICIZE
THEIR SCHOOLTEACHERS, WHO ARE,
AFTER ALL, ADDRESSED AS
"MASTER."
BUT IT WASN'T HARD TO PRY OUT A
PREFERENCE FOR THE PRATHAM TUTOR
CALLED DIDI, OR "BIG SISTER."
>> I LIKE DIDI BETTER.
>> Reporter: YOU DON'T LIKE THE
MASTERS AS MUCH?
WHY?
>> IT'S EASIER TO LEARN.
THEY TELL STORIES, AND WE HAVE
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS AFTER
THAT.
>> Reporter: PERHAPS THEIR MOST
TELLING ANSWER CAME WHEN I ASKED
HOW OFTEN THEIR TEACHERS SHOWED
UP TO SCHOOL.
>> ONE OF THEM COMES DAILY.
THE OTHER TWO ARE IRREGULAR.
>> THEY ARE HERE ABOUT ONCE IN A
WEEK.
>> NOW, ACCOUNTABILITY IS A BIG
WORD, AND, YOU KNOW, MANY THINGS
NEED TO HAPPEN.
I THINK WE'RE AT A PRE-
ACCOUNTABILITY STAGE.
>> Reporter: BANERJEE SAYS THE
HOPE IS THAT THE MARKED
IMPROVEMENT CHILDREN SHOW AFTER
JUST A WEEK AT LEARNING CAMP
WILL SPUR COMMUNITIES TO BEGIN
TAKING RESPONSIBILITY FOR THEIR
SCHOOLS, LONG CONSIDERED THE
DOMAIN OF A DISTANT GOVERNMENT
BUREAUCRACY.
>> WE ARE BIG INTO BLAMING.
YOU KNOW WE OFTEN START FROM
BLAMING THE BRITISH, THEN THE
PRIME MINISTER-- YOU KNOW, BLAH,
BLAH, BLAH, BLAH, BLAH.
SO SOMEBODY ELSE IS ALWAYS AT
FAULT.
SO HOW DO YOU GET AWAY FROM THE
FAULT BUSINESS AND LET'S DO
SOMETHING?
>> Reporter: AS PRATHAM'S
FOUNDER, CHAVAN FEELS MOMENTUM
IS BUILDING ACROSS INDIAN
SOCIETY TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
EDUCATION.
>> WE ARE IN EAST DELHI IN SORT
OF A SLUM COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: HE SAYS IT'S
ESPECIALLY TRUE IN PLACES LIKE
THESE, CLOSER TO INDIA'S
PROSPEROUS, MOSTLY URBAN NEW
ECONOMY.
HERE, HE SAYS PARENTS WILLINGLY
PAY NOMINAL TUITION FOR
PRATHAM'S SERVICES.
BUT MOST OF THE GROUP'S $16.5
MILLION BUDGET COMES FROM
INDIVIDUAL, CORPORATE, AND
FOUNDATION DONORS, IN INDIA AND
OVERSEAS.
FOR ITS PART, INDIA'S GOVERNMENT
PASSED A RIGHT TO EDUCATION LAW
IN 2009, AND HAS MANAGED TO
ENROLL 96% OF ALL CHILDREN.
THAT DOESN'T ADDRESS THE QUALITY
OF EDUCATION, CHAVAN SAYS, BUT
DOES SHOW A WILLINGNESS TO
ENTERTAIN NEW IDEAS AND
DIFFERENT WAYS TO RUN SCHOOL
SYSTEMS.
>> BY 2018, 2019, 50% OF INDIA'S
CHILDREN WILL BE PAYING FOR
THEIR OWN EDUCATION IN PRIVATE
SCHOOL.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND, THE
GOVERNMENTS ARE ALSO PLAYING
WITH DIFFERENT MODELS-- PUBLIC-
PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS LIKE
CHARTER SCHOOLS, IF YOU WILL,
FOR EDUCATION.
SO INDIA COULD COME UP WITH ITS
OWN SYSTEM OF EDUCATION AS WE GO
FORWARD.
>> Reporter: WHAT DO YOU WANT TO
BECOME WHEN YOU GROW UP?
WE TOOK THAT AS AN UNDECIDED.
>> A MATH SCHOLAR.
>> A DOCTOR.
>> Reporter: IT'S NOT CLEAR HOW
THEIR AMBITIONS COULD EVER BE
REALIZED.
BUT FOR PERHAPS THE FIRST TIME,
THESE CHILDREN-- WHOSE PARENTS
NEVER WENT TO SCHOOL-- CAN DREAM
OF SOMETHING OTHER THAN THE
SUBSISTENCE FARMING THAT'S BEEN
THE LOT OF SUCH CHILDREN FOR
GENERATIONS.
>> Brown: FRED'S REPORTING IS A
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-TOLD
STORIES PROJECT AT SAINT MARY'S
UNIVERSITY IN MINNESOTA.
>> Brown: WE TURN TO MOSCOW,
WHERE A U.S. EMBASSY OFFICER WAS
DETAINED AND ACCUSED OF SPYING
IN A STORY THAT SOUNDS RIGHT OUT
OF THE COLD WAR.
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS.
>> Warner: THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME
IN MOSCOW FROM RUSSIA'S FEDERAL
SECURITY SERVICE, THE F.S. B.
RELEASING THESE PHOTOGRAPHS AND
VIDEO, THEY SAY U.S. DIPLOMAT
RYAN FOGLE IN A BLOND WIG AND
HAT HAD BEEN DETAINED IN MOSCOW
OVERNIGHT.
OFFICIALLY HE'S A DIPLOMAT AT
THE U.S. EMBASSY BUT THE
RUSSIANS SAID HE WORKS FOR THE
C.I.A. AND WAS CAUGHT TRYING TO
RECRUIT A RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE
AGENT TO WORK FOR THE U.S.
LATER TODAY, THE RUSSIANS HANDED
HIM OVER TO THE EMBASSY AND
ORDERED HIM EXPELLED FROM THE
COUNTRY.
IN WASHINGTON, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT'S PATRICK VENTRELL
CONFIRMED A U.S. DIPLOMAT HAD
BEEN DETAINED BUT DECLINED TO
ELABORATE.
THE INCIDENT CAME AS THE U.S. IS
SEEKING RUSSIAN COOPERATION IN
TWO KEY AREAS-- THE
INVESTIGATION OF THE BOSTON
BOMBING SUSPECTS AND EFFORTS TO
END THE SYRIAN WAR H.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
WAS IN MOSCOW LAST WEEK
ANNOUNCING A JOINT EFFORT TO
BRING ABOUT SYRIAN PEACE TALKS.
FOR MORE ON THIS, I'M JOINED BY
"WASHINGTON POST" MOSCOW
CORRESPONDENT WILL ENGLUND.
WILL, WELCOME.
THIS SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING OUT
OF A SPY MOVIE.
HOW DID THIS ALL UNMOLD?
>> WELL, THE F.S.B. CERTAINLY
CAME PREPARED.
THEY DETAINED RYAN FOGLE LAST
NIGHTING IN A RESIDENTIAL STREET
IN SOUTHWEST MOSCOW.
THEY BROUGHT CAMERAMEN, THEY
BROUGHT VIDEO.
THEY HAD A -- THEY MADE A PRETTY
EXTENSIVE RECORD OF THEIR
DETENTION OF HIM AND OF HIM BACK
IN THE F.S.B. OFFICE AND SOME
AMERICAN DIPLOMATS WERE CALLED
IN TO BE THERE WITH THEM.
THEY SAY THEY CAUGHT HIM AS HE
WAS TRYING TO RECRUIT A RUSSIAN
AGENT AND HE HAD WITH HIM THE
TOOLS OF SPY CRAFT AND THEY WERE
VERY KEEN TO DISPLAY THESE TOOLS
ON A TABLE IN THE F.S.B.
QUARTERS IN PHOTOS AND VIDEOS
THAT WERE RELEASED TO THE
RUSSIAN PRESS VERY QUICKLY.
KIND OF AN AMAZING BUNCH OF
STUFF.
HE HAD TWO WIGS, KIND OF FRIGHT
WIGS, ALMOST.
THREE SETS OF EYEGLASSES.
A COMPASS, A STREET ATLAS OF
MOSCOW.
WHAT APPEARS TO BE A CANISTER OF
PEPPER SPRAY.
A KNIFE AND THEN THE LETTER
WHICH YOU MENTIONED THAT HE WAS
APPARENTLY SUPPOSEDLY ALLEGEDLY
PREPARED TO DELIVER TO THIS
RUSSIAN AGENT HE WAS TRYING TO
RECRUIT.
THE LETTER ADDRESSED TO "DEAR
FRIEND" AND PROMISING THAT IF HE
COOPERATED OVER THE YEARS HE
COULD EXPECT TO MAKE AS MUCH AS
A MILLION DOLLARS A YEAR IN THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT FOR THE
INFORMATION HE WOULD PROVIDE.
THEN IT GOES ON TO INSTRUCT HIM
ON HOW TO SET UP A GMAIL ACCOUNT
AT AN INTERNET CAFE AND WITHOUT
REVEALING PERSONAL DETAILS OF
HIMSELF.
>> Warner: WHO WAS HE ACCUSED OF
TRYING TO RECRUIT?
>> WELL, ONE REPORT HAS IT THAT
HE WAS LOOKING TO RECRUIT A
OFFICER IN ONE OF THE RUSSIAN
SPECIAL SERVICES.
A COUNTERINTELLIGENCE SERVICE
BASED, INTERESTINGLY, IN THE
NORTH CAUCUSUS, NOT IN MOSCOW.
ALTHOUGH THE MEETING TOOK PLACE
IN MOSCOW.
AND OBVIOUSLY NORTH CAUCUSUS IS
OF GREAT INTEREST TO AMERICAN
INTELLIGENCE THESE DAYS.
THIS IS THE REGION IN RUSSIA
WHERE TAMERLAN TSARNAEV OF THE
BOSTON MARATHON BOMBINGS LIVED
FOR SIX MONTHS LAST YEAR WITH
HIS -- EVENTUALLY HIS FATHER AND
HIS MOTHER.
>> Warner: WHY WOULD THE
RUSSIANS RELEASE HIM SO QUICKLY?
>> WELL, HE IS A DIPLOMAT.
HE WAS HERE AS THIRD SECRETARY
IN THE POLITICAL SECTION.
HE'S NOT A SPY -- WE DON'T KNOW
IF HE'S A SPY AT ALL, ACTUALLY.
BUT HE'S NOT SOMEONE RUNNING A
PRIVATE BUSINESS AND WORKING AS
A SPY.
THAT KIND OF WORK OUTSIDE OF
DIPLOMATIC PROTECTION CAN GET
YOU INTO A LOT OF TROUBLE IF
YOU'RE CAUGHT, PARTICULARLY
DIPLOMATS THAT ARE CAUGHT,
EXPOSED AND EXPELLED.
THESE KINDS OF THINGS DO HAPPEN
WITH SOME FREQUENCY.
>> IT'S 30 YEARS SINCE THE END
OF THE COLD WAR YET EVERY FEW
YEARS WE HAVE THESE SPYING
EXPOSS.
WHAT KIND OF INFORMATION IS THE
U.S. LOOKING FOR NOW?
>> WELL, BOTH COUNTRIES ARE
CLEARLY STILL LOOKING FOR
CLASSIFIED MILITARY INTELLIGENCE
PERTAINING TO THE OTHER COUNTRY.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S STILL TWO BIG
MILITARY POWERS AND THEY WANT
THAT KIND OF INFORMATION.
RUSSIANS FOR MANY, MANY YEARS,
GOING BACK AT LEAST TO THE 1930s
HAVE ALSO BEEN INVOLVED IN
INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE IN THE
UNITED STATES AND AS WE WERE
TALKING, AMERICAN INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES NOW ARE AROUND GREAT
DEAL OF PRESSURE TO COME UP WITH
MORE INFORMATION ABOUT RADICAL
EXTREMIST GROUPS, PARTICULARLY
MUSLIM GROUPS, SOME OF WHICH
HAVE ROOTS AND CONNECTIONS HERE
IN RUSSIA.
>> Warner: AND FINALLY, WHAT ARE
THE RUSSIANS SAYING ABOUT
WHETHER THIS WILL AFFECT
COOPERATION ON ISSUES THAT THE
U.S. HOPES TO WORK WITH THE
RUSSIANS ON?
>> THERE'S A FEELING THAT IT
WON'T HAVE A TREMENDOUS EFFECT.
IN THE LOWER HOUSE OF PARLIAMENT
THEY PLEADED TONIGHT THAT THE
BAD EFFECT OF THIS WOULD BE
FLEETING BUT, OF COURSE, THIS
DOESN'T DO ANYTHING TO IMPROVE
RELATIONS.
TYPICALLY IN CASES LIKE THIS
SOMEONE WANTS TO SEND A MESSAGE
AND THEY' N TO
DERAIL RELATIONS ALL TOGETHER.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT THIS WAS
ABOUT.
MAYBE SOMEONE DIDN'T LIKE THE
IDEA OF THE U.S. AGENCIES, THE
F.B.I. AND THE F.S.B., THE
RUSSIAN F.S.B. COOPERATING THAT
CLOSELY ON THE BOSTON
INVESTIGATION.
MAYBE IT WAS SOME OTHER THING
THAT BOTHERED SOMEBODY HIGHER UP
THE CHAIN AND THEY WANTED TO
SEND A MESSAGE TO RUSSIA.
>> rnerWa: WELL, WILL ENGLUND OF
THE JUAN,HAN TK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, IT'S A PLEASURE.
>> Brown: NOW, HOW TECHNOLOGY
HAS MADE THE WORLD A SMALLER
PLACE, AND, ARGUABLY, OPENED UP
NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE LITTLE
GUY IN POLITICS, BUSINESS AND
ENTERTAINMENT.
POLITICAL EDITOR CHRISTINA
BELLANTONI HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> Reporter: 48 HOURS OF VIDEO
ARE UPLOADED TO YOUTUBE EVERY
MINUTE.
THIS PHOTO OF THE PRESIDENT AND
FIRST LADY WAS SHARED BY MORE
THAN
800,000 PEOPLE ON TWITTER.
TECHNOLOGY HAS ALLOWED US TO
SPREAD VAST AMOUNTS OF
INFORMATION AT LIGHTNING SPEED.
BUT HOW HAS THAT CHANGED THE WAY
WE INTERACT WITH OUR FRIENDS,
FAMILY, SOCIETY, AND GOVERNMENT?
THAT'S THE SUBJECT OF A NEW BOOK
"THE END OF BIG: HOW THE
INTERNET MAKESAVID D THE NEW
GOLIATH" BY NICCO MELE.
HE TEACHES ABOUT THE INTERNET
AND POLITICS AT HARVARD'S
KENNEDY SCHOOLF  OGOVERNMENT AND
JOINS ME NOW.
THANKS FOR BEING HERE.
>> MY PLEASURE, CHRISTINA.
>> Reprtero: YOU WRITE WE'RE IN
THE MIDST OF AN EPIC CHANGE, A
GLEBL TRANSFORMATION THAT GIVES
US THE OPPORTUNITY TO REIMAGINE
SOCIETY AND PUT THE POWER BACK
IN THE HANDS OF THE PEOPLE.
HOW SO?
>> WELL, THERE'S BEEN THIS
TREMENDOUS TRANSFORMATION OVER
THE LAST 35 YEARS.
OUR TECHNOLOGY KEEPS GETTING
SMALLER AND FASTER AND EVEN MORE
CONNECTED.
YOU KNOW, IN 1969, A
SUPERCOMPUTER WOULD HAVE FILLED
AN AUDITORIUM AND WOULD COST $5
MILLION BUCKS.
IT WAS INACCESS TO BELIEVE MOST
AMERICANS.
AND TODAY TWO-THIRDS OF
AMERICANS CARRY AROUND SMART
PHONES IN THEIR POCKETS THAT ARE
ALMOST -- THEY'RE ACTUALLY
SLIGHTLY MORE POWERFUL THAN
THOSE SUPERCOMPUTERS.
THAT'S A TREMENDOUS
TRANSFORMATION.
>> Reporter: AND WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN FOR SOCIETY?
HOW IS IT CHANGING THE WAY WE
INTERACT?
>> IT'S REALLY ABOUT A TRANSFER
OF POWER FROM OUR BIG
INSTITUTIONS-- THE BIG
HIERARCHICAL SYSTEMS THAT HAVE
ORGANIZED OUR WORLD, OUR SOCIETY
ALL PARTS OF IT FROM BIG
COMPANIES TO BIG GOVERNMENTS TO
BIG MEDIA TO BIG NEWS-- AND
THESE INSTITUTIONS WERE
ORGANIZED AROUND A HIERARCHICAL
FLOW OF POWER AND WITH EVERYONE
WALKING AROUND WITH THIS POWER
IN THEIR POCKETS THAT IS
DISTRIBUTED TO INDIVIDUALS ALL
OVER THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: AND YOU CAN APPLY
IT TO POLITICS, CULTURE,.
>> TO REALLY ALMOST EVERY
INSTITUTION YOU'RE LOOKING AT IS
FACING SOME KIND OF
TRANSFORMATION.
IT'S NO LONGER A PASSIVE
AUDIENCE IN NEWSND A
ENTERTAINMENT.
THE AUDIENCE HAS POWER WHEN
THEY'RE CARRYING AROUND SMART
PHONES.
CONSTANTLY CONNECTED.
ABLE TO CAPTURE VIDEO AND PHOTOS
AND SHARE THINGS AND DISTRIBUTE
INFORMATION WITH ZERO COST
GLOBALLY.
>> Reporter: FAST.
AND THE CORE PREMISE OF THIS
BOOK IS THAT YOU'RE EXPERIENCING
WHAT YOU'VE DUBBED "RADICAL
CONNECTIVITY."
SO WHAT EXACTLY IS RADICAL
CONNECTIVITY?
>> ONE OF THE HALLMARKS OF THE
END OF BIG IS WE DON'T REALLY
HAVE GOOD LANGUAGE TO DESCRIBE
WHAT'S GOING ON.
THE INTERNET DOESN'T QUITE
CAPTURE WHAT'S HAPNINGPE BECAUSE
IT'S ALSO MOBILE.
WE'RE CARRYING AROUND WITH US.
BUT MOBILE PHONES STILL IS LIKE
A LITTLE TOO MUCH ABOUT PHONES
AND SO I POINT TO RADICAL
CONNECTIVITY TO TRY AND DESCRIBE
HOW ANYONE WITH A MOBILE SMART
PHONE IS CONNECTED AT ENORMOUS
SPEED WITH COMPLETE MOBILITY AT
PRACTICALLY ZERO COST.
ARE
>> AND THE HEART OF GOVERNMENT
IS IN OUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES, YOU
WRITE, IN THE BOOK.
AND I'D LOVE TO HAVE YOU EXPLAIN
WHERE YOU HAVE THE POWER OF
HAVING THIS IN THEIR CITIES AND
TOWNS.
HOW TECHNOLOGY MAKES THAT
POSSIBLE.
>> I'LL TELL YOU A STORY ABOUT
THAT.
I HAVE TWO LITTLE BOYS AND I
LIVE AT THE PLAYGROUND, RIGHT?
GOT TO KEEP THOSE BOYS
EXHAUSTED.
AND ONE OF THE PLAY GROUNDS I
FREQUENT HAS A VERY BIG, LONG
SLIDE.
AND IN -- A COUPLE YEARS AGO IN
HURRICANE IRENE THE SLIDE GOT
DAMAGED AND THE LOCAL TOWN SAID
IT WAS GOING TO BE $25,000 $30
TO REPLACE THE SLIDE AND THAT
WASN'T IN THE BUDGET FOR A
COUPLE OF YEARS.
AND SO I DON'T KNOW WHO, SOME
LOCAL PARENT, MADE A PAPAL PAGE,
PHOTOCOPYED FLIERS, STUCK THEM
TO THE TREES ALL OVER THE
PLAYGROUND AND SAID IF EVERY
PARENT WHO VISITS HERE GIVES
$100 TO THE PAYPAL ACCOUNT,
WE'LL RAISE THE MONEY TO REPLACE
THE SLIDE OVERNIGHT.
SURE ENOUGH, IT HAPPENED IN JUST
A FEW WEEKS.
AND WHEN I STARTED TO LOOK AT
THAT I COULD SEE HOW THIS
RADICAL POWER, THIS INCREDIBLE
CONNECTIVITY THAT INDIVIDUALS
ARE CARRYING AROUND, IT'S
RESHAPING THE BALANCE OF POWER
IN OUR COMMUNITIES IN BOTH GOOD
WAYS AND BAD WAYS.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S SOME VERY
EXCITING THINGS HAPPENING.
>> Reporter: BASICALLY YOU
PREVENT THIS AS MOSTLY A
POSITIVE THING.
AN OPPORTUNITY.
BUT ISN'T THERE A FLIP SIDE TO
AN AREA WHERE THERE COULD BE
DANGER IN THIS NEW SOCIETY?
>> SURE.
THE FOUNDING FATHERS SPENT A LOT
OF TIME THINKING ABOUT THE
BALCE OANF POWER AND HOW TO
BUILD A SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT
THAT YOU COULD BALANCE BETWEEN
THE MONARCH AND THE MOB.
THAT YOU WANTED DELIBERATION.
YOU WANTED RESPONSIBLE
LEADERSHIP AND RESPONSIBLE
PUBLIC POLICY.
AND OUR INSTITUTIONS AREDESIGNEY
CHECKS AND BALANCES AND
CONSIDERATIONS.
THE MONEY WE RAISED FOR SLIDE,
WAS THAT REALLY THE MOST
PRESSING NEED AND THE BEST WAY
TO SPEND THAT MONEY FOR THE TOWN
IT ALL HAPPENED OUTSIDE THE
EXISTING STRUCTURES OF THE LOCAL
GOVERNMENT AND SO THERE WASN'T
ANY TRY NEGOTIATE THAT.
AND SO WHILE IT'S VERY EXCITING
THAT A GROUP OF PARENTS CAN
QUICKLY RAISE THE MONEY TO
REPLACE THE SLIDE, IT ALSO
HAPPENED OUTSIDE THE PROCESS OF
GOVERNMENT THAT WAS DESIGNED TO
MAKE THIS ALL WORK.
AND PART OF THAT IS BECAUSE THE
NUMBER OF CHALLENGES ON THE
FRONT OF OUR INSTITUTIONS, THE
DIFFERENT WAYS GOVERNMENT IS NOT
DOING AS GOOD AS A JOB, IS NOT
AS ACCESSIBLE AS IT SHOULD BE,
ESPECIALLY THIS AGE.
THAT'S THE CORE THESIS OF MY
BOOK IS THAT OUR ESTABLISHED
INSTITUTIONS ARE THREATENED BY
TECHNOLOGY THAT REDISTRIBUTES
POWER.
ESPECIALLY WHEN THEY'RE DOING A
BAD JOB.
>> Reporter: INTERESTING STUFF.
NICCO MELE "THE END OF BIG."
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
FILMAKER REVISITS HIS PAINFUL
PAST IN "NEVER FORGET TO LIE" ON
FRONTLINE THIS EVENING.
MARIAN MARZYNSKI TELLS HIS STORY
AND THE STORIES OF OTHERS LIKE
HIM, ALL CHILDREN WHO HID THEIR
JEWISH IDENTITY TO SURVIVE
DURING THE HOLOCAUST.
IN THE FOLLOWING EXCERPT,
MARZYNSKI DESCRIBES LIFE AFTER
HE WAS SEPARATED FROM HIS
PARENTS AND TAKEN TO A POLISH
CLERGYMAN BY A FAMILY FRIEND.
>> THE PRIEST ARRANGED FOR MY
STAY AT A CATHOLIC ORPHANAGE RUN
BY THE ITALIAN ORDER OF BROTHERS
THEY WERE 45 ORPHANS YOUNGEST.
ONLY THE BROTHER SUPERIOR KNEW
WHO I REALLY WAS.
WHEN GERMAN POLICE CAME TO THE
ORPHANAGE LOOKING FOR JEWISH
CHILDREN, HE WOULD HIDE ME
BEHIND THE ALTAR.
AT SIX, I HAD MY HOLY COMMUNION
AND BECAME THE MOST DEDICATED
ALTAR BOY, A FAVORITE OF THE
PRIESTS.
DURING THE MASS I WOULD
SOMETIMES FALL ASLEEP AT THE
ALTAR.
A BROTHER WOULD PICK ME UP AND
THEN CARRY ME TO MY BED.
WHEN I WAS HERE 30 YEARS AGO ONE
SISTER WAS STILL ALIVE.
DO YOU REMEMBER ME, SISTER?
YOU LOOK A LITTLE DIFFERENT.
I DON'T REMEMBER YOUR NAME.
IT'S MARISH.
OH, MARISH, THE YOUNGEST OF ALL
THE CHILDREN.
VERY SMALL BOY.
AND I REMEMBER YOU AS A SISTER
WHO ALWAYS GAVE ME SUGAR.
I SPENT TWO AND A HALF YEARS AT
THE ORPHANAGE.
IF WHEN WE SAW THE SMOKE OVER
THE WARSAW GHETTO I OVERHEARD
THE WORST "THE JEWS ARE
BURNING."
WAS MY FATHER STILL THERE?
>> Woodruff: TONIGHT
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH
FRONTLINE TONIGHT.
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF
THE DAY.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION FACED
TOUGH QUESTIONS ABOUT I.R.S.
SCRUTINY OF CONSERVATIVE GROUPS,
AND THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT'S
SEIZURE OF REPORTERS' PHONE
RECORDS.
A PHILADELPHIA ABORTION DOCTOR
WAS SENTENCED TO LIFE IN PRISON
WITHOUT PAROLE, FOR MURDERING
THREE BABIES WHO WERE BORN ALIVE
IN HIS CLINIC.
>> Brown: WILL ACROSS THE BOARD
FEDERAL BUDGET CUTS AFFECT THE
SYSTEMS THAT WARN AGAINST
FLOODS?
KWAME HOLMAN TELLS US MORE.
>> Holman: SCIENTISTS USE STREAM
GAUGES TO TRACK WATER LEVELS AND
DROUGHTS.
THE CUTS MEAN SOME 150 OF THEM
ARE BEING SHUT DOWN.
WE EXPLAIN HOW THE DEVICES WORK
ON THE RUNDOWN.
ON THIS DATE IN 1796, A BRITISH
DOCTOR GAVE A CHILD THE FIRST
SMALLPOX VACCINE, READ THE STORY
OF HIS REMARKABLE DISCOVERY ON
OUR HEALTH PAGE.
FELINE FANS UNITE AT THE
INTERNET CAT VIDEO FESTIVAL IN
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA.
FIND OUR SLIDESHOW ON ART BEAT.
AND TOMORROW MORNING WATCH A
LIVE STREAM OF A CHARITY RUN AT
8:00 A.M. EASTERN TIME AS
NEWSHOUR STAFFERS RACE AGAINST
U.S. SENATORS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
JUDY?
.
>> Brown: BEFORE WE GO TONIGHT,
WE WANT TO TELL YOU ONCE MORE
ABOUT THE REPORT WE'LL HAVE THIS
FRIDAY ON THETE HEARINGS.
WE'VE BEEN HEARING FROM MANY OF
YOU AND WE WOULD LOVE YOUR
INPUT.
>> GOOD EVENING FROM WASHINGTON.
IN A FEW MOMENTS WE'RE GOING TO
BRING YOU THE ENTIRE PROCEEDINGS
IN THE FIRST DAY OF THE SENATE
WATERGATE HEARINGS.
WE'RE DOING THIS AS AN
EXPERIMENT TEMPORARILY
ABANDONING OUR ABILITY TO EDIT
TO GIVE YOU THE WHOLE STORY.
HOWEVER MANY HOURS IT MAY TAKE.
>> Reporter: IT'S BEEN 40 YEARS
SINCE ROBERT MacNEIL AND JIM
LEHRER TEAMED UP TO CO-ANCHOR
PUBLIC TELEVISION'S
GAVEL-TO-GAVEL COVERAGE OF THE
SENATE WATERGATE HEARINGS.
ALL 250 HOURS WORTH IN THE
SUMMER OF 1973.
THAT PARTNERSHIP BECAME A NEWS
PROGRAM THAT'S BEEN THROUGH A
VARIETY OF FORMS AND LIVES ON IN
WHAT YOU'RE WATCHING TODAY.
JIM AND ROBIN SHARE THEIR LOOK
BACK IN A SPECIAL REPORT THAT
WILL AIR LATER THIS MONTH
"COVERING WATERGATE."
BUT WE ALSO WANT TO HEAR FROM
YOU, OUR VIEWERS.
HOW DID THE WATERGATE SCANDAL
IMPACT YOUR LIFE OR CHANGE THE
WAY YOU VIEWED GOVERNMENT OR THE
MEDIA?
40 YEARS LATER, HOW HAS IT
IMPACTED OUR NATION?
YOU CAN LEAVE YOUR COMMENTS ON
OUR HOME PAGE OR VIA TWITTER.
USE THE HASHTAG
"COVERINGWATERGATE."
YOU CAN ALSO CALL OUR ORAL
HISTORY HOT LINE AT
202-599-4PBS.
JUST FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS AND
LEAVE YOUR VOICE MAIL AT THE
TONE.
>> Woodruff: WE LOOK FORWARD TO
THAT.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT
ATTORNEY GENERAL HOLDER'S
TESTIMONY BEFORE SENATORS ON
CAPITOL HILL.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.